# Methods and data

Samples and morphometric data were collected from seals harvested for Alaska Native subsistence purposes during 1998–1999, 2000s, 2010s, and 2020–2023 at communities under a biological monitoring program conducted by Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G). Data from this period were compared to data previously collected by ADF&G from the subsistence harvest and research cruises during 1962–1969, 1970s, 1980–1982, 1984–1985, and 1990–1991. In the analysis of body condition, we also included blubber thickness data from 1,282 ringed seals harvested near Point Hope as part of the Cape Thompson Project Chariot study (1960–1961; Johnson et al. 1966).  

Data for each seal included collection date, species, sex, standard length, and blubber thickness. Tissues include the stomach, female reproductive tract, and a tooth or claw for aging. Samples from all locations and seasons were pooled by decade (except for diet, which were from December–May only) to compare changes over time. Seal age was determined by counting annual growth rings in a tooth or claw. Stomach contents were identified using taxonomic keys to the lowest taxonomic level. Changes in prey categories over time were analyzed using logistic regression models. Blubber thickness was measured over the sternum between the front flippers and changes by decade were analyzed using linear mixed effects models that accounted for known sources of variability, including seasonal variation in blubber thickness, seal length, and sex. The remaining unexplained variability, also known as the model residuals, can then be plotted by decade to determine if there were periods when seals were on average thinner or fatter. Female reproductive tracts were evaluated for reproductive status and condition to evaluate productivity using changes in the age of maturity and pregnancy rate by decade. Age of maturity was estimated as the age at which 50% of females had ovulated at least once and analyzed using probit regression models (DeMaster 1978). Pregnancy rate was defined as the proportion of mature females with a corpora lutea in the year of harvest, except that seals with a corpora lutea but no fetus by 1 November were considered not pregnant. Pregnancy rate data were analyzed using logistic regression models. We assessed changes in the proportion of pups harvested using logistic regression models.
